This is 1. The Kothari Committee Report on Recruitment Policy and Selection Methods interlaid recommended a major change in the examination system. They recommended a two stage Examination process, a preliminary examination followed by a main examination. This Committee also suggested changes in the training pattern for the civil services. The Fifth Central Pay Commission that employment on contract basis should be encouraged and Government employees should have the right to retain their lien for two years in case they wish to migrate to the private sector. This is to be done through devolution of functions, funds and functionaries. This exercise has to cover the entire range of subjects as mentioned in the Eleventh Schedule of the Constitution. Most of the States have already assigned a majority of the important subjects to the Panchayats. Some of the States have even gone to the extent of devolving all the subjects through the state act itself. But, in practice such transfers have remained incomplete. Firstly, there has been a lack of rational thinking as to which of the disaggregated activities, based on considerations of economies of scale, efficiency, capacity, enforceability and proximity, ought to be devolved. This has led to overlapping jurisdiction of different tiers of government. This situation seriously undermines accountability. Secondly, in many cases, while States assign responsibilities to local Governments, they leave the performance of key activities and sub-activities necessary to deliver such devolved services with State line agencies. Though the problems of Indian agricultures and the causes of distress of farmers are not matters within the purview of this commission. It is clear that the difficulties of the agrarian community have the potential of engendering serious conflicts.
The Expert Group on Agriculture Indebtedness appointed by the Ministry of Finance went into the causes of farmers distress and came to the conclusion that phenomena like farmers' suicides and their debts burden are the symptoms of a larger malaise which manifests itself in declining profitability, increasing risks, degradation of natural resources and decline in investment agriculture etc. With the farmers unable to meet basic needs like education for their children and family health care, deep distress and despair arise to ensure the implementation of its recommendations. In a report prepared by the Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled castes, it was observed Displacement of people from their lands has been a source of conflict, even when government acquires land for a public purpose under the provisions of the law. Lands may be acquired for small projects like installation of a small sub-station involving very little displacement or for large projects like the major hide projects resulting in large scale displacement. Lands are acquired under the land Acquisition act similar state laws. The laws prescribe the procedure to be followed while acquiring lands and also lay down the norms for compensating the title holders. Acquisition of land is necessary for the larger socio-economic development of a country. Putting land to more economic use and thus increasing the economic returns to the society is the underlying principle for acquisition of land. But it has been experienced that the person who loses land feels that he has been given a raw deal while compensating him. The Civil Services Examination Review Committee, recommended major changes in the structure of the examination system for recruitment to the civil services. It favored testing the candidates in a common subject rather than on optional subjects.
