This is 2. The selection of personnel to the eight areas of specialization was to be made through mid career competitive examination. All Class one belonging to the All-India and Central Services with experience of eight to twelve years in the functional areas would be eligible. the selection process would consist of a written test to be administered by the interview to be conducted by a committee consisting of the Chairman and two senior Secretaries of the Government of India. While a number of Committees have emphasized the importance of training both induction and in service some of the major recommendations are given below.
The Report on Public Administration highlighted the fact that in order to have suitable personnel to stab the public services, it is essential that there is proper recruitment and training and an adequate organization and methods set up. It also recommended an induction training to equip a civil servant with the necessary knowledge and skills to perform his/her duties followed by trainings at designated intervals to refresh his/her knowledge, keep him in touch with new developments and his/her mind active, supple and receptive. The Committee recommended the appointment of a Director of Training to closely monitor all aspects of training. The Report on Indian and State Administrative Services and Problems of District Administration by Krishna emphasized that State Civil Service officers should also undergo a structured training. It also recommended establishment of training institutes in States with the help of National Academy of Administration. It emphasized that the training should prepare the individual civil servant not only for performing his/her present job, but also for shouldering higher responsibilities and meeting the new and complex challenges in the future.
A strong grievance redressed mechanism has been prescribed, which includes standing committees at the district, and at the project levels. The Policy also provides that land acquired for a public purpose cannot be transferred to any other purpose and that too, only with prior approval of the Government. The National Commission for Schedules castes and Scheduled Tribes have been asked to investigate and monitor all matters relating to the safeguards provided for them. It also recommended the creation of an Organization and Methods machinery. Goral, in his two reports to the Planning Commission recommended that there should be greater understanding between Ministers and civil servants. More concretely, Goral asked for an Organization and Methods machinery and Whitley Councils.
The Appleby Report also contained recommendations relating to the establishment of machinery and an Institute of Public Administration. These two recommendations were implemented by Government. The various Reports of the first ARC underscored the significance of an efficient administrative system. Some of the recommendations to enhance efficiency included, suitable awards such as rolling cup shield to be given as incentives for timely completion of specific projects, cash rewards for valuable suggestions given for simply action of work that led to economies in expenditure and increased efficiency, establishing work norms and examining staff strength on the basis of studies by Staff Inspection Units.
The Fifth Central Pay Commission stressed upon the need to optimize the size of the government machinery. The Expenditure Reforms Commission emphasized on a drastic downsizing of the government staff strength for securing modern and professional governance and also reducing the increasing salary bill of the Government of India.
