This is 3. It first recommended that the departments and organizations which were in direct charge of development programmes should introduce performance budgeting. Also recommended the establishment of two special institutions deal with complaints against the administrative acts of Ministers and Secretaries to the government at the Centre and deal with such complaints in States. The Hota Committee recommended that the Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections of the Code of Criminal Procedure may be amended to protect honest civil servants from malicious prosecution and harassment. It safeguards the Scheduled Castes to participate and advice on the planning process of socio economic development of the Scheduled Castes and to evaluate the progress of their development under the Union or any State. It was also recommended that the final grading should be communicated to the employee. The Pay Commission also recommended an appraisal of Group officers, so that a full picture of their personality emerges after every five years. It recommended restoration of Annual Confidential Report for Group cadres. The Report of the Group constituted to review the system of Performance Appraisal, Promotion, Empanelment and Placement of the Other Services recommended that Refurbishing Performance appraisal should be primarily used for the overall development and for his/her placement in an area where his/her abilities and potenti al can be best used. The agency assigned the responsibility of monitoring the timely writing of annual performance reports should put in place a computerized system for more active monitoring. The entire performance record including the overall grade should be disclosed to the reported upon.
In case they do not accept the representation of appraise, the report may be placed before a designated referral board that would consider the matter and make changes if required including the overall grading. As yet, there is no established modality for evaluation of an officer performance by peers, subordinates and clients, it would be useful to supplement the formal performance appraisal regime with an institutionalized means of ascertaining the reputation of civil servants consistent with out culture and ethos. Land is a perennial source of conflict in all societies and even more so in predominantly agrarian economies where apart from being the principal asset, possession and ownership of land is the sine qua non of social respectability. The report is to be presented to the President, annually and at such other times as the Commission may deem fit, reports, upon the working of those safeguards to make in such reports, recommendations as to the measures that should be taken. It recommended that the following considerations be taken into account in services that provide for postings in the secretariat and at the field level, the liability for service all over the country should be rated in the graded system. There has been a succession of Committees that were asked to recommend measures for increasing the efficiency of the civil services.
The Secretariat Reorganization Committee under the chairmanship of examined the functions of the existing departments of Government of India with reference to relative priority and necessity of their activities and made recommendations about how these activities were to be undertaken by the Union Government with the available personnel. In the Committee while recommending restructuring.