This is 4. It recommended the constitution of the Central Vigilance Commission, and administrative vigilance divisions in all Departments and major organizations of the Government. The Committee suggested rules to be framed for governing the conduct of civil servants and rules regarding dealing in stocks and speculations. While successful implementation of land reforms in rural areas in the abolished intermediaries and considerably abated agrarian unrest, it resulted in the emergence of a new class of proprietors. By the Union or any State for the effective implementation of those safeguards and other measures for the protection, welfare and socio economic development of the Scheduled Castes another recommendation of the Hota Committee was that each department should lie down and benchmark services to be delivered, methods of grievance redressed and public evaluation of performance. It also recommended that a Model Code of Governance should be drawn up benchmarking the standards of governance to be made available to the citizens. It further recommended that an annual State of Governance Report, benchmarking the performance levels of each S tate department Ministry should be brought out. In History of Civil Services in India and Reforms also recommended that a Model Code of Governance should be drawn up benchmarking the standards of governance to be made available to the citizens. It further recommended that an annual State of Governance Report, benchmarking the performance levels of each State department Ministry should be brought out. The Fifth Central Pay Commission was of the view that the format should follow the rating system based on a ten point scale as in the Armed Forces Only those who can demonstrate a credible record.
Ad hoc solutions have added to the cycle of conflicts in the region. Regional inequalities have been another source of conflict. Over the last several decades, regional imbalances have got accentuated and the problems of intra-state inequalities and urban rural divide have also become more acute. This has happened in spite of the equity-promoting role of various plans programme and underlines the need for greater efforts to be made to remove gaps in the provision of basic services and infrastructure so that no region and no group remains deprived of the benefits of growth and development. At present, one sixth of India's population lives in the shadow of violent conflicts. Some of these conflicts, particularly in the Northeast and J&K go back to 1947. The ultra-left extremist movement came later. As started earlier, the response of the State to these conflicts has been largely reactive in recent decades. The State and its apparatus have tended Conflict Resolution. A conceptual Framework Capacity building for Conflict Resolution to view conflicts more in terms of breakdown of law and order which, of course, it is, in a sense and less in terms of the failure of the socio economic, political, governance and development process. That a lack of responsive and good governance is often responsible for violent conflicts has not been adequately recognized and acted upon. What should the State do to resolve conflicts? Ideally, the State should pay adequate attention to the genesis of conflicts and find solutions to the problems before they become significant and deepen into conflicts. Once identified and recognized appropriate administrative and institutional interventions need to be designed and assiduously followed to help mitigate the possibility of such conflicts.