This is 5. While the goal of the left extremists was to actualize their own vision of the State through revolution, they chose to usher that revolution by enlisting the support of the deprived and exploited sections of society particularly in areas where such sections constituted a significant part of the population. It is, therefore necessary to identify the reasons for such deprivation and consequent discontent. The commission would like to refer to the causes exhaustively identified by the Expert Group on Development and the causes of Discontent, unrest and Extremism of the Planning Commission in its draft report. A summary of causes extracted from the Report is as under: Land Related Factors Evasion of land ceiling laws, Existence of special land tenures enjoying exemptions under ceiling laws, Encroachment and occupation of Government and community lands even the water bodies by powerful sections of society; Lack of title to public land cultivated by the landless poor, Poor implementation of laws prohibiting transfer of tribal land to non-tribal in the Fifth Schedule areas. Non regularization of traditional land rights. Displacement and forced evictions Eviction, from land traditionally used by tribal, Displacements caused by irrigation and power projects without adequate arrangements for rehabilitation, Large scale land acquisition for public purposes without appropriate compensation or rehabilitation, Large scale land acquisition for public purposes without appropriate compensation or rehabilitation. Left Extremism, Livelihood Related causes, Lack of food security, corruption in the Public Distribution System which are often non-functional, Disruption of traditional occupations and lack of alternative work opportunities. Deprivation of traditional rights in common property resources and Social Exclusion Denial of dignity etc.
There is also need to recognize that political, social and economic rivalry is an unavoidable part of the development process which gets what, when and how. Whether these rivalries deepen into conflicts that prove intractable over time depends on the capacity of the institutions of the State to articulate and understand the interests and aspirations of different groups, to arbitrate between them and to mediate rivalries. All of this depends on having institutions at all levels that are seen as legitimate, effective, participatory, credible and accountable, and not as tokens or as mechanisms that promote and buttress narrow vested interests. The task, then, is one of building appropriate capacity and effectiveness in these institutions. From the figures given in the Table it is evident that extremist violence is increasing and expanding. These figures, however, do not capture the fact that the gravity of violent incidents has become far more pronounced as is particularly evident from some recent violent incidents taking a heavy toll of lives in Chhattisgarh. Also does not adequately convey the fact that most of the affected areas are forest areas predominantly inhabited by tribal populations. It has emerged as the greatest challenge to internal security. It has gained peoples confidence, grown in strength particularly in forest and tribal areas, by mobilizing dispossessed and marginalized sections. It creates conditions for non-functioning of the government and actively seeks disruption of development activities as a means to achieve its objective of wresting control. It spreads fear among the law abiding citizens. While these features also form part of the activities of all terrorist organizations, due to its wider geographical coverage, left extremism has made a deep impact on the conflict scenario of the country.