This is 6. There are early stages in the development of a problem when through mechanisms such as early warning, timely analysis and appropriate response; problems can be prevented from escalating into conflicts accompanied by violence. That is why it is important to develop an understanding of the genesis of conflicts and to formulate long-term strategies that not only address immediate demands but also include attention to underlying issues such as alleviation of poverty, social justice and empowerment, and corruption free development at the grass-root level. The State cannot allow itself the indulgence of treating conflicts as mere breakdown of law and order and adopt fire-fighting techniques to address such breakdowns.
When the fault line lie along identities of tribe, caste, region and religion, the St ate needs to create political conditions and institutions for mediating the conflicts of these diverse groups and integrating them so that the groups can function collectively and harmoniously. There is need to recognize that such conflicts are the touchstones for deep-seated grievances over the unequal sharing of benefits from the process of growth and development. It is fortunate, however, that such conflicts between groups and regions can be addressed. The surest way is to restore confidence through a process of multi-stakeholder dialogue. The approach ought to start from the simple principle that conflicts can be resolved peacefully and on an enduring basis only through trust and persistent and inclusive dialogue. The need is to build multistakeholder platforms or similar participatory processes that bring stakeholders together. There is need for inclusive frameworks both institutional and administrative.
And powerful people and that even tribal leaders are working as agricultural labor in such lands. Another 'cause' which needs to be noted is the disruption of the age old tribal- forest relationship. Historically, tribal life was well integrated with the forest, but legislations and governance in the last century considerably altered this symbiosis. The Forest Act, 1927 and the Forest conservation Act, 1980 along with stringent Supreme Court orders have turned forests into prohibited areas for the tribal's, creating serious imbalances in their lives and livelihoods. This has turned the tribal's against government's methods of forest management, and gradually against government itself. This discontent has provided fertile ground for the spread of left extremism among tribal's living in forest areas. Rampant alienation of the land rights of the tribal's to non-tribal's and the States' measures to prevent and undo such transfers through legislations such as the Andhra Pradesh land Transfer Regulation Act of 1970 have remained on paper, and have further accentuated tribal discontent. In fact, in Andhra Pradesh, there is a perception that even the talks held between the State Government and the Nasals failed primarily because forest land could not be distributed among the tribal's as demanded by the Nasals. Many left extremist movements, notably the uprising in Naxalbari, could be resolved successfully. An analysis of what really happened in such areas particularly in Naxalbari may provide necessary insights for resolving the present problem of left extremism. From 1972 onwards, the Government of West Bengal adopted a slew of ameliorative measures in the Nasal-affected districts. The Comprehensive Area Development Programme was introduced to supply inputs and credit to small farmers and the government.