This is 7. Such an analysis is provided in Sum anta bannered, beyond Naxalbari. Naxalbari and Debra, the worst Naxalaffected areas, were selected for the programme. At about the same time, directives were issued to government officials in Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh and Ganja in Orissa to ensure that debts incurred by the tribal poor are cancelled and instead, loans were advanced to them from banks and other sources for agricultural improvement. In West Bengal, after the left Front government came to power in 1977, Operation barge was started to ensure the rights of the sharecroppers. Alongside, significant increases were made in the minimum wages which benefitted large sections of the rural poor. As a result, the beneficiaries of these government programme began to distance themselves from Fatalism and the process signaled the beginning of the end of Fatalism in these areas. A case study about the left extremism reveals that once the Administration became complacent and started withdrawing from its proactive role, left extremism managed to regain a foot-hold in the area. There are important lessons to learn from this experience – there is no 'permanent cure' to conflict situations and any let up in measures which bring relief can cause recrudescence of conflicts. Unlike the relatively successful stories outlined above, the situation in Chhattisgarh today continues to cause serious concern. The Bestir region of the State, where 12 blocks are seriously affected, is an example of how left extremism gained ground because, inter alia, the tribal's in the area were deprived of forest-based employment.
Initially, the forests of Bestir were used by the extremists from Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra as temporary refuge.
The active participation of local tribal's followed much later in the wake of stresses and strains on their livelihood, growing food insecurity and the growing despair about improvements in their socioeconomic situation. The situation in the region has not been helped by the raising of local resistance groups called Salsa Judo started initially in two tribal development blocks of south Bestir and now extended to eleven blocks in Chhattisgarh. Even though Salsa Judo is publicized as a spontaneous awakening of the masses against extremists, today thousands of tribal's are being protected in fortified camps pointing to the disturbed life they are focused to lead. These camps have been attacked by the extremists leading to several deaths. In the process, the poor tribal's are being caught between the legitimate sovereign power of the State and the illegitimate coercive power of the extremists who deliver instant justice through peoples' courts and other informal devices. Applying the West Bengal model and the experiment tried out in Pavagada to areas currently affected by left extremism like Chhattisgarh is a matter requiring careful consideration. It is clear that a judicious mix of development and welfare initiatives coupled Left Extremism Capacity building for conflict Resolution. With land reforms and well planned counterinsurgency operations is required to restore peace, harmony and confidence in the administration in such areas. It is a matter of satisfaction, therefore that this approach is now receiving wide endorsement. The Common Minimum Programme' of the United Progressive Alliance, for instance, recognized the multi-dimensional nature of this problem. This policy outlines measures to be taken to deal with this issue at the political, social, developmental and administrative levels.