This is 8. Similarly, the Prime Minister, while addressing the Chief Ministers of the States affected by violent left extremism, on 13th April, 2006, also emphasized that, "We must, however, recognize that fatalism is not merely a law and order issue. In many areas, the phenomenon of fatalism is directly related to under-development. It is not coincidence that it is the tribal areas that are the main battleground of left wing extremism today. Large swathes of tribal territory have become the hunting ground of left wing extremists. Exploitation, artifici ally depressed wages, iniquitous socio political circumstances, inadequate employment opportunities, lack of access to resources, under-developed agriculture, geographical isolation, lack of land reforms – all contribute significantly to the growth of the nasality movement. All these factors have to be taken into consideration as we evolve solutions for facing the challenge of naxalism." The Commission notes with satisfaction that a general consensus has now emerged on not treating violent left extremism only as a law and order problem but as a multi causal malaise with breakdown of law and order as its 'ranking symptom'. Extremist violence would require tapping the capacity of all the elements of the government and civil society as discussed later in this chapter. Managing Left Extremism – the Political Paradigm, the '14-point policy' referred to in the previous paragraph rightly underscores the need to contextualize left extremism in a perspective that is much wider than the conventional wisdom which places trust on a mixture of the 'police stick' and the 'development carrot' as the panacea for militant extremism particularly of the left variety.
It needs to be emphasized that while the ultimate goal of the left extremist movement is to capture state power, its immediate manifestation is in the form of struggle for social justice, equality, dignity and honesty in public services. Viewed thus, the spread of the movement over a wide area signifies the fact that efforts to remove those conditions which give rise to the acceptance of the ideology of violent left extremism have not been particularly successful. In the circumstances in should be possible to visualize this movement not as a threat to the security of the State but a fight within the State for obtaining what the system promised but failed to deliver. In that context, there may also be a need to keep the door open for negotiation with such groups and not necessarily insist on preconditions such as lying down of arms. It will be reasonable therefore, to take a view that while the movement has major law and order dimensions, it is not a purely law and order problem. The violent activities of the 'foot soldiers' – as opposed to its ideologically hardened hardcore – could well be due to the fact that their attempts to get their grievances redressed through non - violent, democratic methods may have not evoked due response. The temptation to utilizethe police forces is very high but it should be remembered that unaccountable police action and abuse of police power validates violence even among the hitherto non-involved populations. To sum up, left extremism feeds on persistent and serious shortcomings in the domain of general and development administration, resulting in the failure of the government to address the needs of the poor in areas pertaining to land, food, water and personal security, equity, ethnic/cultural identity etc. If this diagnosis is accepted, then the 'containment' of the problem may inter alia require consideration of the following.